# Relational Database Management System

With an outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, online order and delivery systems are in great demand in almost all sectors. Companies such Amazon, eBay have been an integral part of our lives and such a business case is relatable to all. This project primarily focuses on exploring database design and various aspects related to the database management system for ‘Kart’ an e-commerce business.

‘Kart’ is an online shopping platform for consumer items of the latest trends and styles. This project explores the life cycle of a product from the time the customer places an order to when the customer receives their order; from a business and database management perspective. The project also shows use of analytics to calculate revenue, find business opportunities in products of high demand, use of purchase pattern recognition for personalized recommendation to customers and gain a sense of customers’ engagement rate with the application. These statistics can help the business improve their products and services for enhanced customer satisfaction. E-commerce business has to manage the consumer and merchant (seller) side of the business and logistics related to shipping. This project explores the consumer side of the business while the merchant and the logistics aspects of the business are beyond the scope of this project.

The main purpose of this project is to build an effective database management system for ‘Kart’ to fulfill all business requirements along with obtaining useful data insights guiding towards making better business decisions. Data for the project is a mix of real-world data and manually compiled data. The data for customers, current orders, order history and payments have been compiled in excel. Product details, product reviews are taken from Amazon website for real products. The data schema is prepared in MySQL workbench and the data has been uploaded from excel to MySQL Workbench. Data schema includes 10 entities with multiple attributes to capture customer and orders related information. The dataset helps us understand the life cycle of a customer’s order from the moment an order is placed.

## Conclusion
The project helped to gain an overall sense of organizational structure and database management from an e-commerce business perspective. Additionally, it also helped to identify different functional areas in a business, entities associated with these functional areas and attributes related to it. While designing the model for the project, a better understanding of modelling relationship, cardinality of relationship, normalization to avoid anomalies in data in the relational model was obtained. The project also gave hands- on experience of creating end-to-end relational database management systems in MySQL workbench.
It was crucial to note that while inserting data into the entity tables, the attribute length or data type should not be mismatched between different entity tables as this will cause an impediment when joining the tables and creating the database. The takeaway here is the importance of referential integrity in databases in the process of creating data schema and inserting data in entity tables.
